Ethan Xia
Mrs. Grillot
Period 1
21 January 2025
Graffiti: the Messenger of Crime and Disorder
	According to (source)The US spends almost a billion dollars cleaning up graffiti every year. One billion dollars is about three dollars per taxpayer. Not only that, graffiti has to be carefully removed and the removal takes time. Finally, if the government chooses not to remove it, there could be other public consequences. Therefore, graffiti is vandalism because graffiti is costly and makes the area look neglected and more susceptible to crime.
	First, graffiti should not be allowed because graffiti causes significant harm to the affected area. According to a figure reported under the Houston City Department of Neighborhoods, “the presence of illegal graffiti sends a signal that nobody cares, which can result in other forms of crime and street delinquency in the neighborhood” (“Wiping Out Graffiti in Houston” 2). Graffiti often is associated with crimes such as vandalism, so people often associate these areas as a gang area. Moreover, graffiti gives criminals the go-ahead that they are not likely to be caught as it seems that no one cares enough to remove the mural. In addition, Deborah Lamm Weisel, an assistant teacher at the ASU College of Humanities and Social Sciences reported, “Graffiti contributes to lost revenue associated with reduced on transit systems, reduced retail sales and declines in property value and graffiti generates the perception of blight and heightens fear of gang activity” (Weisel 1-2). Areas affected by graffiti likely also have to deal with reduced selling costs of numerous businesses. Since graffiti is already related to vandalism, the businesses nearby could be hurt because they seem shady. In general, graffiti is vandalism because it only harms what it is put on.
	Graffiti is also vandalism because of the long-lasting effects even after removal. The Houston City Departments of Neighborhoods also states “graffiti cleanup costs tax payers $1-3 per person per year. In smaller communities, the cost is less than $1 per person. Nationally, this adds up to between 300 and 900 million dollars per year” (“Wiping Out Graffiti in Houston” 1). Nationally, 300 million dollars to clean up graffiti is harmful because tax money is the main way of funding for various projects like roads. Not only do graffiti slow down government projects, they also drain money earned by hard-working people. Furthermore, the National Park Service, which is often connected to preserving pristine and beautiful scenery also adds, “Even if the graffiti is removed, the rock is still discolored. It will never be the same” (“Make Memories and Leave No Trace” 1). Even after the expensive removal of graffiti, delicate areas such as natural wonders would still have marks of vandalism. To add on, businesses who were affected by graffiti may also develop a negative reputation. In general, graffiti isn’t only an inconvenience but something that could change the future of those who are afflicted. 
	Some argue that graffiti is art because it is a centuries old way of expressing ourselves. For example, NPS remarks, “Leaving a mark is in our nature. Across the Colorado Plateau, American Indians, settlers, and cowboys all left signs of their presence. These marks are part of regional history, dating back hundreds of years” (“Make Memories and Leave No Trace” 1). Even in the past, graffiti has been used to express and even state, “I was here.””. Although someGraffiti could be expressive, graffiti is also a way to spread hate and crime in public. According to the National Council to Prevent Delinquency, “According to the National Council to Prevent Delinquency, about 80% of graffiti is hip hop or “tagger” graffiti. Another 5% are “pieces.” Nationally, gang graffiti makes up about 10%” (“Wiping Out Graffiti in Houston” 2). Tagger Graffiti is to let others know it is safe to write graffiti in the selected area. Pieces are the large, bubble letters and stand for “masterpiece.””. Gang graffiti can be used for gangs and sometimes used for violence. All types of graffiti are used either to attract attention (damages public areas and costs a fortune to remove), or signify danger, violence, or hate.
	In conclusion, graffiti should be considered vandalism because of the cost and effects associated with it. Imagine if graffiti wasn’t in every other street in a large city and our government could focus on their projects. A world without someone expressing their hate on concrete would certainly be better. Graffiti should be classed as vandalism because this form of art takes away millions of dollars every year, and affects everyone who views it in a harmful way.